scripts/develop-against-test-app.md, before:

# Develping against a test app

## Overview

Assuming Yarn is being used, a package that has a `test-app/` (System Under Test) subdirectory will have the app contained therein built on watch mode so a developer has a visual representation to work against.

## How it works

See [the `build-single-package` script for details](./build-single-package.md).

Unlike build, which is a one-off designed to construct the output prior to publishing, when script runs it:

- runs `esbuild` to produce bundled JS output in-memory, using the `serve` API,
- which opens a web server at localhost:3000,
- and reloads that every time files change.

Note that hot reloading is not supported by ESBuild: it simply refreshes every time.

## Imports

```js
import { serve } from "esbuild";
import { join } from "path";
import rimraf from "rimraf";
```

Logging is primitive (just basic `console.log` calls), but the different levels are coloured and formatted:

```js
import { buildLog, errLog, finLog, prepLog, warnLog } from "./scripting-utilities.mjs";
```

## Setup

Set up some globals:

```js
const PORT = 3000;
```

Use the `INIT_CWD` variable to grab the necessary paths, then in turn use that to grab info from
the package's manifest file.

```js
const workspacePath = process.env.INIT_CWD;
const workspaceManifestPath = join(workspacePath, "package.json");
const workspaceSourceDirectoryPath = join(workspacePath, "src", "test-app");
const workspaceOutDirectoryPath = join(workspacePath, "src", "test-app", "www");

const { name, peerDependencies } = JSON.parse(
	await fs.readFile(new URL(workspaceManifestPath, import.meta.url))
);
```

## Execution

```js
try {
	prepLog(`Starting watch of ${name} test implementation on port ${PORT}`);
	const serveConfig = {
		port: PORT,
		// host?: string;
		servedir: workspaceOutDirectoryPath,
		// onRequest?: (args: ServeOnRequestArgs) => void;
	};
	const buildConfig = {
		bundle: true,
		entryPoints: [join(workspaceSourceDirectoryPath, "index.tsx")],
		outfile: join(workspaceOutDirectoryPath, "index.js"),
		sourcemap: true,
		tsconfig: join(workspacePath, "tsconfig.json"),
	};
	await serve(serveConfig, buildConfig);
} catch (err) {
	errLog(err.message);
	errLog(err.stack);
	process.exit(1);
}
```

Commit message:

chore: update watch script readme

scripts/develop-against-test-app.md, after:

# Develping against a test app

## Overview

Assuming Yarn is being used, a package that has a `test-app/` subdirectory containing a react app will have the app built on watch mode so a developer has a visual representation to work against.

> **NOTE** this is currently only for web apps, the script needs work to allow for Expo test apps.

## How it works

See [the `build-single-package` script for details](./build-single-package.md).

Unlike build, which is a one-off designed to construct the output prior to publishing, when script runs it:

- runs `esbuild` to produce bundled JS output in-memory, using the `serve` API,
- which opens a web server at localhost:3000,
- and reloads that every time files change.

Note that hot reloading is not supported by ESBuild: it simply refreshes every time.

## Setup

1. In the package you want a test app, add a `test-app/` directory under `src/`
2. In that folder, add a `www/` directory. Add an `index.html` and whatever else should be public (CSS, favicon to stop the browser screaming that there isn't one, etc etc).
3. JS/TS Code for the app should go directly into the `test-app/` folder, so you'll need an `index.tsx` at the very least.
4. In the `tsconfig.json`, add `"src/test-app/**/*"` to the array of excluded files (`"exclude"` property). This is going to ensure that the test app is _not_ included in the final package output.
5. In the `package.json`, add `"watch": "yarn global:watch"` to the `"scripts"` field.
6. Run `yarn workspace @thingco/my-package watch` and a server should start up, serving at localhost:3000.

## Imports

```js
import { serve } from "esbuild";
import { join } from "path";
import rimraf from "rimraf";
```

Logging is primitive (just basic `console.log` calls), but the different levels are coloured and formatted:

```js
import { buildLog, errLog, finLog, prepLog, warnLog } from "./scripting-utilities.mjs";
```

## Setup

Set up some globals:

```js
const PORT = 3000;
```

Use the `INIT_CWD` variable to grab the necessary paths, then in turn use that to grab info from
the package's manifest file.

```js
const workspacePath = process.env.INIT_CWD;
const workspaceManifestPath = join(workspacePath, "package.json");
const workspaceSourceDirectoryPath = join(workspacePath, "src", "test-app");
const workspaceOutDirectoryPath = join(workspacePath, "src", "test-app", "www");

const { name, peerDependencies } = JSON.parse(
	await fs.readFile(new URL(workspaceManifestPath, import.meta.url))
);
```

## Execution

```js
try {
	prepLog(`Starting watch of ${name} test implementation on port ${PORT}`);
	const serveConfig = {
		port: PORT,
		// host?: string;
		servedir: workspaceOutDirectoryPath,
		// onRequest?: (args: ServeOnRequestArgs) => void;
	};
	const buildConfig = {
		bundle: true,
		entryPoints: [join(workspaceSourceDirectoryPath, "index.tsx")],
		outfile: join(workspaceOutDirectoryPath, "index.js"),
		sourcemap: true,
		tsconfig: join(workspacePath, "tsconfig.json"),
	};
	await serve(serveConfig, buildConfig);
} catch (err) {
	errLog(err.message);
	errLog(err.stack);
	process.exit(1);
}
```
